[EDU-3160] feat: secure edge functions (#471)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/secure-journey/automate/edge-functions-apis.mdx

---
title: Automate security with Azion Edge Functions
description: Through Edge Functions, you can write your own security source code in JavaScript and deploy it to run at the edge of the network.
meta_tags: edge, security, javascript
namespace: documentation_secure_automate_functions
menu_namespace: secureMenu
permalink: /documentation/products/secure/automate/functions/
---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'

## Edge Functions and Edge Firewall

Edge Functions are functions that run on the Azion Edge Computing Platform with low latency, bringing the operational power closer to the end user.

> Through Edge Functions you can write your own security source code in **JavaScript** and deploy it to run at the edge of the network, allowing you to:

Author: ```suggestion
Through Edge Functions, you can write your own security source code in **JavaScript** and deploy it to run at the edge of the network, allowing you to:
```

---
title: Automate security with Azion Edge Functions

> description: Through Edge Functions you can write your own security source code in JavaScript and deploy it to run at the edge of the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Through Edge Functions, you can write your own security source code in JavaScript and deploy it to run at the edge of the network.
```

meta_tags: edge, security, javascript
namespace: documentation_secure_automate_functions
menu_namespace: secureMenu
permalink: /documentation/products/secure/automate/functions/
---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'

## Edge Functions and Edge Firewall

Edge Functions are functions that run on the Azion Edge Computing Platform with low latency, bringing the operational power closer to the end user.

Through Edge Functions you can write your own security source code in **JavaScript** and deploy it to run at the edge of the network, allowing you to:

- Boost your protection
- Have more dynamism
- Apply the logic that your business requires

> - Use APIs that provide request and response header manipulation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use APIs to manipulate request and response headers
```

---
title: Automate security with Azion Edge Functions
description: Through Edge Functions you can write your own security source code in JavaScript and deploy it to run at the edge of the network.
meta_tags: edge, security, javascript
namespace: documentation_secure_automate_functions
menu_namespace: secureMenu
permalink: /documentation/products/secure/automate/functions/
---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Edge Functions and Edge Firewall

Edge Functions are functions that run on the Azion Edge Computing Platform with low latency, bringing the operational power closer to the end user.

Through Edge Functions you can write your own security source code in **JavaScript** and deploy it to run at the edge of the network, allowing you to:

- Boost your protection
- Have more dynamism
- Apply the logic that your business requires
- Use APIs that provide request and response header manipulation
- Implement logic based on network lists

---

## Develop edge functions for protection

The Azion Edge Functions for the firewall run in the request phase, and respect the following process: 

> 1. The rules configured on the [Edge Firewall Rules Engine](/en/documentation/products/edge-firewall/rules-engine/) for the function to run are triggered
> 
> 2. Azion Edge Runtime processes the function, returning an outcome
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The rules configured on the [Edge Firewall Rules Engine](/en/documentation/products/edge-firewall/rules-engine/) for the function to run are triggered.
2. Azion Edge Runtime processes the function, returning an outcome.
```

3. Edge Firewall Rules Engine resumes the processing, based on the outcome, from the point the behavior was triggered.

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/edge-firewall/edge-functions/firewall/" text="go to edge functions for edge firewall reference" variant="secondary" target="_blank"></Button>

---

## Secure with APIs

> [Azion Edge Runtime](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/edge-functions/runtime/overview) supports a list of APIs that allow manipulation of [metadata](/en/documentation/products/secure/automate/functions/#metadata) and the use of [network lists]/en/documentation/products/secure/automate/functions/#metadata) to help the logic implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Azion Edge Runtime](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/edge-functions/runtime/overview) supports a list of APIs that allow manipulation of [metadata](/en/documentation/products/secure/automate/functions/#metadata) and the use of [network lists](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/edge-functions/runtime/api-reference/network-list/) to help the logic implementation.
```

Reviewer 2: check 2nd link

Author: ```suggestion
[Azion Edge Runtime](/en/documentation/products/edge-application/edge-functions/runtime/overview) supports a list of APIs that allow manipulation of [metadata](/en/documentation/products/secure/automate/functions/#metadata) and the use of [network lists](/en/documentation/products/secure/automate/functions/##network-list) to help the logic implementation.
```

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/edge-application/edge-functions/runtime-apis/javascript/" text="go to supported Web APIs" variant="secondary" target="_blank"></Button>
<br />
<Button href="/en/documentation/products/azion-edge-runtime/compatibility/node/" text="go to node.js compatibility" variant="secondary" target="_blank"></Button>

### Metadata

The Metadata API enables access to a set of metadata that can be manipulated to:

- Filter and manage access to your application
- Apply specific logic in different scenarios based on GeoIP

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/edge-application/edge-functions/runtime/api-reference/metadata/" text="go to metadata api reference" variant="secondary" target="_blank"></Button>

### Network list

> Azion Network List Interface allows matching an IP address against a specific network list. If the IP address informed is within the network list, it returns true and the desired implementation logic can go on based on that information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Azion Network List Interface allows matching an IP address against a specific network list. If the IP address informed is within the network list, it returns `true` and the desired implementation logic can go on based on that information.
```
